# Project Manager
## Summary
This programme is designed to increase team productivity in managing their projects. Individuals are able to easily access tasks assigned to them and see important information such as due dates and task descriptions. They can update the progress of their tasks centrally for all team members to see. Admins are additionally able to add new users and tasks, monitor employee performance and automatically generate reports on the progress of the team's tasks.
## Latest Release
### Version 0.2
* 'View my task' option now allows you to edit tasks. You can reassign them to another team member, edit the due date, or mark as complete.
* Admin may now generate reports and view statistics of team and individual performance. The programme tracks the workload of each team member, their completion statistics and whether they have any overdue tasks.
## Planned updates
* Create a GUI
* Change from using txt files to databases for storing user and task data
* Increase tolerance of different user inputs to reduce handling errors
## Instructions
### Navigating the Menu
Upon correctly entering your login details, you will be presented with a menu of options. To access your chosen menu option,type the letter(s) indicated to the left of the option and press enter.
### Register User
**Note that this option will only be accessible by users with admin privileges** <br>
Entering r at the menu will allow the user to create login credentials for a new user. Enter a username, password and then confirm the password,
pressing the enter key each time. If the username you have provided already exists, it will be rejected by the programme and you will be given
the chance to choose a new username. If the passwords you have entered do not match, you will be asked to re-enter a new password.
### Add Task
Entering a at the menu will allow you to create a new task and assign it to any user. You will be prompted to enter the username of the person
you are assigning the task to, a title and description of the task, and finally a due date. Press enter after answering each prompt, and the
programme will automatically log the new task details to the central system. Please ensure that you have entered the username of the assignee
exactly, and that dates are entered in dd/mm/yyyy format.
### View All Tasks
Entering va at the menu will present you with a list of every task currently assigned to all team members, along with their details.
### View Your Tasks
Entering vm at the menu will allow you to view just those tasks that are assigned to you. Enter -1 once you are done viewing your tasks to
return to the main menu. Entering the task ID number associated with a task will allow you to make changes to that task. From here, entering 1 will automatically change the completion status of the task in the central system. Entering 2 will allow you to change the due date of the task. Entering 3 will allow you to reassign the task to another team member. Entering 4 will return you to the main menu.
### Generate Report
**Note that this option will only be accessible to users with admin privileges** <br>
Entering gr at the menu will prompt the programme to generate a report on the current status of all tasks and team members, and may be viewed
via the display statistics menu option.
### Display statistics
**Note that this option will only be accessible to users with admin privileges** <br>
Entering ds at the menu will display the figures of the latest report generated by the system. For an up-to-date report, please ensure that
you generate a new report before choosing to display statistics. The display statistics function will present you with both a general report on the whole team's performance, as well as individual status reports on each team member's current commitments.
### Exit
Entering e at the menu will exit the programme. Once you exit, you will have to re-enter your login details to access the programme again.
## Past Releases
### Version 0.1
* Fully functioning login system that reads account details from an external txt file.
* Admin may add new login details for a new user which will then be stored in the external txt file.
* User may add a task and assign it to a user, and give it a title, description and due date. The task will then be stored in an external txt file.
* Tasks are read from an external txt file and users have the option to either view all tasks or only those assigned to them.
